APPLICATION OF CLASSIFICATION METHODS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF MODELS TO PREDICT CREDIT CARD APPLICATION APPROVAL

Classification just like the word describes, is dividing a group of observations or physical entities into different classes following a predefined method or model. It is a supervised method of learning. With a selected classification algorithm, we look to predict the class of an observation from a model formed from the training dataset used to build the model.
A credit card is usually issued by a bank following a series of analysis and assessment of the predefined requirements. These requirements could include credit score, monthly income, if they have owned a credit card before or not, number of years employed, etc. The ability to build a model that would be able to predict if an applicant’s application would be approved or not would be very instrumental to a bank or monetary body. With an already existing dataset, we can predict the outcome of different scenarios like the approval of a client’s application for a credit card, loan or even to know if a client’s account would become dormant in future. Here, we see the importance of Data Mining.
Data mining is the process of studying, sorting, and examining large datasets to form patterns, useful information, correlations, and relationships that is then used to make critical decisions, solve problems, and predict outcomes.
In this project, data mining is applied in credit card application. The aim is to apply three supervised learning methods to build models that can predict which credit card application would be approved. Supervised method is used because the class to be predicted is known. There would also be evaluation of the performance metrics of each module and picking which model performs better for the prediction. The objective of this project is to use data mining on the credit card approval dataset, to perform data pre-processing and to understand the different performance metrics used in classification.
